h2. Reference Software Platform

The Reference Software Platform Lead Project is part of the Linaro 96Boards initiative. The goal of the project is to deliver Linaro output for ARM SoCs using 96Boards products for use cases ranging from the Embedded to the Enterprise segments. The releases may contain bootloader, kernel, distribution and/or user level middleware/applications. The releases will comprise loadable software for 96Boards products, reference source code, and documentation on building the source code, any hardware dependencies including porting tips for other SoCs, and configurations chosen for the reference builds.

Please check this "video":http://connect.linaro.org/resource/sfo15/sfo15-104-the-96boards-software-reference-platform/ from Linaro Connect (SFO15) for more information about the Reference Software Platform project.

h3. Resources:

h4. Latest News
* Hikey and Dragonboard 401c builds with 4.3 kernel
* ARM Juno r1, AMD Overdrive and HiSilicon D02 support with 4.4-rc4 kernel

h4. Releases
* "2015.12":https://github.com/96boards/documentation/wiki/RP-Release-2015.12 (Release 1)
* "2015.10":https://github.com/96boards/documentation/wiki/RP-Release-2015.10 (Alpha)

h4. General:

* "Reference Software Platorm - CI Jobs and Builds":https://github.com/96boards/documentation/wiki/Reference-Software-CI

h3. Feedback and Support

For general questions or support requests, please go to the "96boards.org Community forum":https://www.96boards.org/forums/. For development questions and topics, please use the "96Boards.org development mailing-list":https://lists.96boards.org/mailman/listinfo/dev (dev@lists.96boards.org).

For any bug related to this release, please submit issues to the "96Boards.org Bug tracking system":https://bugs.96boards.org/. To submit a bug, follow "this link":https://bugs.96boards.org/enter_bug.cgi?classification=__all

Bugs will be reviewed and prioritized by the 96Boards team. For any bug report it is recommended to provide as much information as possible, and at the very list please include the name of the release you are using, the output of @uname -a@ the output of @dpkg -l@ to list all packages installed, as well, as the boot log (output of @dmesg@).

For IRC support, please go to the @#96boards@ channel at FreeNode.