h2. Reference Platform Build - 15.10 Alpha Release - Known Issues

h3. UEFI - HiKey

* "Bug 117":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=117 - UEFI fastboot uploads hangs for large images
** Workaround is to use the fastboot support provided by the ARM TF (@bl1.bin@, provided by the binary @l-loader.bin@)

h3. Debian

h4. HiKey - Image 31

* Mali not supported, missing kernel and userspace support
* "Bug 20":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=20 - USB kernel trace errors -22
* "Bug 43":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=43 - Iceweasel browser exits after file download complete
* "Bug 86":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=86 - Debian ALIP: resize UI screen when underlying DRM resolution changed.
* "Bug 143":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=143 - Mouse cursor invisible after boot (until you open an application)
* "Bug 144":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=144 - Shutdown is not clean
* "Bug 145":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=145 - Thermal sensor is not readable
* "Bug 147":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=147 - Highest resolution of 1080p monitor cannot be detected
* "Bug 148":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=148 - Bluetooth doesn't work
* "Bug 150":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=150 - Cannot login when the screen is locked
* "Bug 151":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=151 - glxgears: couldn't get an RGB, Double-buffered visual
* "Bug 152":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=152 - SD-Card doesn't work
* "Bug 159":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=159 - No sound cards found
* "Bug 160":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=160 - Behaviors of power on button not following hardware user guide

h4. DragonBoard 410c - Image 31

* Freedreno graphics driver not provided by the image
** Newer mesa, libdrm and freedreno xorg driver is needed (to be available as part of the next release)
** Workaround is to enable the qcom overlay PPA, and install the required packages (ADD INSTRUCTIONS)
* Slow USB throughput (ADD LINK TO THE FORUM/OPEN A BUG)
* "Bug 43":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=43 - Iceweasel browser exits after file download complete
* "Bug 121":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=121 - Cannot soft power off or shutdown db410c
* "Bug 154":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=154 - glxgears and tuxracer benchmarks failed to run (due to the missing freedreno driver)
* "Bug 156":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=156 - HDMI resolution change not working
* "Bug 157":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=157 - HDMI audio not working (MIGHT NOT BE A BUG)
* "Bug 165":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=165 - HDMI Display sleep - no way to wake back up

h3. AOSP

h4. HiKey - Image 21

* "Bug 136":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=136 - HDMI goes off while running CTS
* "Bug 161":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=161 - Fails to enter sleep mode
* "Bug 163":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=163 - HDMI audio not working
* "Bug 164":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=164 - Behaviors of power on button not following hardware user guide
