h2. Reference Platform Release Status

*Release:* 16.03
*Code/feature freeze:* February 22th / 2016
*RC1:* February 22th / 2016
*Release date:* March 1th / 2016

h3. Release Candidates

h4. RC3

*Debian Installer:* "mini.iso":https://ci.linaro.org/view/96boards/job/96boards-reference-debian-installer-staging/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/mini.iso and "netboot.tar.gz":https://ci.linaro.org/view/96boards/job/96boards-reference-debian-installer-staging/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/netboot.tar.gz
*CentOS Installer:* "31":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/components/centos-installer/31/
*Kernel:* "linux-image-4.4.0-93":http://repo.linaro.org/ubuntu/linaro-staging/pool/main/l/linux/linux-image-4.4.0-93-arm64_4.4.0.linaro.93-1.linarojessie.1_arm64.deb
*UEFI*: "44":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/components/uefi/44/
*CE AOSP RPB HiKey*: "65":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/aosp/hikey/65/
*CE AOSP RPB Dragonboard410c:* "45":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/aosp/db410c/45/
*CE Debian RPB HiKey*: "56":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/debian/56/hikey/
*CE Debian RPB Dragonboard410c:* "56":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/debian/56/dragonboard410c/

h4. RC2

*Debian Installer:* "mini.iso":https://ci.linaro.org/view/96boards/job/96boards-reference-debian-installer-staging/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/mini.iso and "netboot.tar.gz":https://ci.linaro.org/view/96boards/job/96boards-reference-debian-installer-staging/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/netboot.tar.gz
*CentOS Installer:* "30":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/components/centos-installer/30/
*Kernel:* "linux-image-4.4.0-91":http://repo.linaro.org/ubuntu/linaro-staging/pool/main/l/linux/linux-image-4.4.0-91-arm64_4.4.0.linaro.91-1.linarojessie.1_arm64.deb
*UEFI*: "44":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/components/uefi/44/
*CE AOSP RPB HiKey*: "65":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/aosp/hikey/65/
*CE AOSP RPB Dragonboard410c:* "45":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/aosp/db410c/45/
*CE Debian RPB HiKey*: "55":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/debian/55/hikey/
*CE Debian RPB Dragonboard410c:* "55":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/debian/55/dragonboard410c/

h4. RC1

*Debian Installer:* "mini.iso":https://ci.linaro.org/view/96boards/job/96boards-reference-debian-installer-staging/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/mini.iso and "netboot.tar.gz":https://ci.linaro.org/view/96boards/job/96boards-reference-debian-installer-staging/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/netboot.tar.gz
*CentOS Installer:* "29":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/components/centos-installer/29/
*Kernel:* "linux-image-4.4.0-85":http://repo.linaro.org/ubuntu/linaro-staging/pool/main/l/linux/linux-image-4.4.0-85-arm64_4.4.0.linaro.85-1.linarojessie.1_arm64.deb
*UEFI*: "43":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/components/uefi/43/
*CE AOSP RPB HiKey*: "65":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/aosp/hikey/65/
*CE AOSP RPB Dragonboard410c:* "43":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/aosp/db410c/43/
*CE Debian RPB HiKey*: "54":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/debian/54/hikey/
*CE Debian RPB Dragonboard410c:* "54":https://builds.96boards.org/snapshots/reference-platform/debian/54/dragonboard410c/

h3. Kernel

Kernel is 4.4 based, unified and supporting the following boards by default:
* Dragonboard410c
* HiKey
* AMD Overdrive
* D02
* APM X-Gene/Moonshot m400 (supported on RC3)

Tree data:
* Git: "https://git.linaro.org/people/amit.kucheria/kernel.git":https://git.linaro.org/people/amit.kucheria/kernel.git
* Branch: *96b-kernelci*
* Config: "https://git.linaro.org/people/amit.kucheria/kernel.git/blob/refs/heads/96b-kernelci:/arch/arm64/configs/distro.config":https://git.linaro.org/people/amit.kucheria/kernel.git/blob/refs/heads/96b-kernelci:/arch/arm64/configs/distro.config

h3. Remaining Work Activities

* QA/Validation - QA Team
* Test/Validation of GPIO, I2C and SPI support on both HiKey and Dragonboard410c
* Porting xorg-server into linaro-overlay - *Nicolas*
* Release Documentation - *Robert*
* Linaro-EDK2 February Release - *Leif*
* D02 OpenPlatformPkg update - *Heyi/Leif*
* D02 EDK2 SAS support - *Zhangfei Gao*
* Move unified kernel to "https://github.com/96boards/linux":https://github.com/96boards/linux - *Amit*
* Update CentOS installer to use the unified kernel - *Ricardo*
* ROD Openstack support for CentOS - *Fathi*
* Update default grub config used by HiKey (generic) - *Ricardo*

h3. Out of Scope / Next Release

* Kernel Fragments - *Amit*

h3. Current Issues / Bugs

h4. Kernel

* "Bug 1999 - RP Kernel doesn't boot on HP Moonshot m400 (APM X-Gene) cartridges (ACPI)":https://bugs.linaro.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1999 - *Ricardo/Amit*
* -"Bug 2060 - [RPB] Missing support for APM XGENE / Moonshot m400":https://bugs.linaro.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2060 - *Amit*-

h6. HiKey

* "Bug 262 - [RPB] LG W2253V fails to work with 4.4.0-93-arm64":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=262 - *Amit*

h6. Overdrive

* "Bug 2051 - RPB: Overdrive fails to find the SATA disks when booting with ACPI":https://bugs.linaro.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2051 - *Graeme*

h6. Dragonboard410c

* -"Bug 2061 - [RPB] CONFIG_QCOM_SCM breaks XGENE support":https://bugs.linaro.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2061 - *Amit/Nicolas*-

h6. D02

* "Bug 2037 - D02: Unable to handle kernel paging request":https://bugs.linaro.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2037 - *Amit/Hanjun*
* "Bug 2063 - D02: No console unless you boot with console=ttyS0,115200":https://bugs.linaro.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2063 - *Amit/Hanjun*
* "Bug 2067 - [RPB] irq 5: nobody cared (try booting with the "irqpoll" option when rebooting the system":https://bugs.linaro.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2067 - Amit/Hanjun

h4. UEFI

h6. D02

* -"Bug 2062 - EDK2 D02: "sas: realizing _RST replacing syscon" breaks SAS support in Linux":https://bugs.linaro.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2062 - *Heyi*-
* "Bug 2032 - ACPI NUMA Support crashes on D02":https://bugs.linaro.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2032 - *Hanjun*
* Lack of PCIe support for D02 on Linux (missing tables) - *Hanjun/Heyi*
* Lack of SAS support in EDK2/UEFI - *Zhangfei*

h6. HiKey

* Lack of a default device-tree for HiKey - *Ricardo/Guodong*

h4. Debian

* "Bug 2009 - Wrong network device name set after Debian install":https://bugs.linaro.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2009 - *Ricardo*

h6. DB410c

* "Bug 207 - [RPB] Bluetooth does not work on Dragon board debian":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=207

h4. AOSP

h6. DB410c

* "Bug 254 - [RPB] wpa_supplicant crashes wcn36xx":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=254
* -"Bug 253 - [RPB] Gallery fails to open due a fatal exception in GLThread":https://bugs.96boards.org/show_bug.cgi?id=253-

h4. OE/Yocto